Srimad Bhagavatam presevered by our Disciplic Succesion, Recieved and Distributed as it is By His Divine Grace AC Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada
Founder Acaraya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness 
The cows and bulls as well as brahmanas should be kept happy and respected in all respects.
The cows give milk which is used for drawing religious purposes.
The bulls give grains.
Only the twice born administrative class of men can provide the peace and tranquility which current humnan society is hankering.
The act of sentencing the low class man(sudra) by a pious king like Maharaja Parikshit is righteous. 
Sanity in human society is not possible by just rules and regulations but by devotion to the Supreme Lord as stated in the scriptures.
If we live whimsically or foolishly, being ignorant to the Law's god then the whole human socity suffers. No matter how educated/intelligent/sentimental the leaders are, their attempt to establish peace and prosperity will be baffled by the material nature.
In the Kingdom where code of the Supreme Personality to Godhead are followed, no one is found unhappy.
By arranging for people to convert into devotees of the Lord, the burden of the state would be mitigated.The Devotees of the Lord are by nature peaceful and offenseless. Then the government would only have kill the miscreants, who cause disturbance to others.
The denizens of higher planets are not immortal, deathless. There is addressed as such because their life span is far, far greater than of a human being. Our arethematic would be ineffective.
The King of the State should be very powerfull to even subdue the strongest offeneders of the codes of God, who are certainly legible to a death penalty.
In times of emergency only and no other times, should one be allowed to violate the occupational duties. For example Visvamitra had to live on flesh of dog at extreme situations. But in ordinary times, the King should ensure everyone is following his own occupational duties. Anyone not doing so shall be punished as enouciated by the Scriptures.
Maharaja Parikshit is protected by the Lord from his birth. He is an unalloyed devotee of the Lord. So such statements by Maharaja Parikshit are of great value, thus the dharma became pacified and assured of his protection.
More on this, especially SB 1.17.18-20